Google Sheets DS Plugin Docs (#255)
grafana/google-sheets-datasource: docs/sources/setup/provisioning.md

---
title: Provisioning the Google Sheets data source in Grafana
menuTitle: Provisioning
description: Provisioning the Google Sheets source plugin
keywords:
  - data source
  - google sheets
  - spreadsheets
  - xls data
  - xlsx data
  - excel sheets
  - excel data
  - csv data
  - visualize spreadsheets
labels:
  products:
    - oss
    - enterprise
    - cloud
weight: 103
---

# Provisioning the Google Sheets data source in Grafana

You can define and configure the Google Sheets data source in YAML files with Grafana provisioning. For more information about provisioning a data source, and for available configuration options, refer to [Provision Grafana](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/administration/provisioning/#data-sources).

You can use any of the 3 types of provisioning:

- API Key
- Google JWT File

> - GCE Default Service Account

Author: done this part

## Using the API key authentication type

You can use the basic API key authentication type by simply creating a new API Key for the Google Sheets from the Workspace. For more information about the Google Sheets API Key, refer to [Google Sheets API](https://developers.google.com/sheets/api/reference/rest).

**Example**

The following YAML snippet can be used to provision the Google Sheets data source for Grafana if you are using the API key authentication type.

```yaml
apiVersion: 1
datasources:
  - name: GoogleSheetsDatasourceApiKey
    type: google-sheets-datasource
    enabled: true
    jsonData:

>       authenticationType: ’<KEY>’

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      authenticationType: 'key'
```

Shouldn't this be just 'key'?

Reviewer 2: I think this is following the guidance for placeholder variables in https://grafana.com/docs/writers-toolkit/write/style-guide/write-for-developers/#placeholder-variables

Author: Ok, I just tested it out it should be just 'key' as the actual key will be defined in the apiKey variable

Author: Will remove the placeholders from 'key'

Reviewer 2: Ah, that makes sense

    secureJsonData:
      apiKey: ’<YOUR-API-KEY>’
    version: 1
    editable: true
```

## Using the Google JWT service accounts authentication type

You can use the Google JSON Web Tokens (JWT) service accounts authentication type that will allow you to authenticate for server-side applications or backend services that need to access Google APIs on behalf of a user or service account. For more information about the Google JWT authentication, refer to [Using JWT to authenticate users](https://cloud.google.com/api-gateway/docs/authenticating-users-jwt).

**Example**

The following YAML snippet can be used to provision the Google Sheets data source for Grafana if you are using the JWT (service account) authentication type.

```yaml
apiVersion: 1
datasources:
  - name: GoogleSheetsDatasourceJWT
    type: grafana-googlesheets-datasource
    enabled: true
    jsonData:
      authenticationType: 'jwt'
      defaultProject: ’<YOUR_PROJECT_ID>’
      clientEmail: ’<YOUR_CLIENT_EMAIL>’
      tokenUri: 'https://oauth2.googleapis.com/token'
    secureJsonData:
      privateKey: '-----BEGIN PRIVATE KEY-----\nnn-----END PRIVATE KEY-----\n'
    version: 1
    editable: true
```

> ## Using the GCE authentication type
> 
> You can also use the Google Compute Engine (GCE) authentication type if you running applications or services on Google Compute Engine virtual machines as it provides a default service account that is associated with each virtual machin which can also be be used to authenticate and authorize access to Google services and APIs from within the virtual machine. For more information about the GCE authentication, refer to [Authenticate to Compute Engine](https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/authentication).
> 
> **Example**
> 
> The following YAML snippet can be used to provision the Google Sheets data source for Grafana if you are using the GCE authentication type.
> 
> ```yaml
> apiVersion: 1
> datasources:
>   - name: GoogleSheetsDatasourceJWT
>     type: grafana-googlesheets-datasource
>     enabled: true
>     jsonData:
>       authenticationType: 'gce'
>       defaultProject: ’<YOUR_PROJECT_ID>’
>     version: 1
>     editable: true
> ```

Reviewer 2: I've removed the link because I don't think it helps users with provisioning Grafana to use this authentication type.

````suggestion
## Using the default GCE service account

You can use the Google Compute Engine (GCE) default service account to authenticate data source requests if you're running Grafana on GCE.

**Example**

The following YAML snippet provisions the Google Sheets data source using the default GCE service account for authentication.
Replace _`<PROJECT ID>` with your GCE project ID and replace _`<DATA SOURCE NAME>`_ with the name you want to give the data source.

```yaml
apiVersion: 1
datasources:
  - name: <DATA SOURCE NAME>
    type: grafana-googlesheets-datasource
    enabled: true
    jsonData:
      authenticationType: 'gce'
      defaultProject: '<PROJECT ID>'
    version: 1
    editable: true
```
````

Author: Make sense. Thanks for this
